My non-CS branch engineers, this one's especially for you.
Background doesn't matter, preparation does.
I know you're tempted to skip ahead.
Don't.
This is the part that gets asked in interviews.
A topic is a named, durable, ordered log of records — conceptually similar to a database table, but append-only and replayable.
Every topic is divided into one or more partitions.
A partition is the fundamental unit of parallelism and ordering in Kafka.
Real talk: I've seen senior engineers at Uber get this wrong in interviews.
Don't be that person.
Everyone says Replication is the best approach.
That is , actually wrong for most real-world systems.
I will show you why in a moment.